- Does the premise
answer the question,
“What’s this story about?”
Yes and not--
it doesn’t answer...
the question
because there are a lot
of answers to that question.
For example,
it’s about a king
who keeps on longing
for something 'til death.
It’s a premise,
but it’s also about
destroying feudal values.
That’s not the premise.
It just means I could have
a lot of answers to that question.
But the answer is,
probably, dramaturgically,
to show you
the direction of the story,
that’s probably it.
because it could be about...
disloyalty.
But that doesn’t count.
It’s a theme, it's a what.
It’s what pervades
throughout the play.
It’s about lying.
Because all the characters
there are lying.
It’s a perfectly valid answer,
what the play’s about.
But it doesn’t help
the writer track his direction
so that he only has one
way to follow.
- Therefore, a premise may change
in the middle of the writing,
in the middle of preparing the materials.
- Like say, if your research
runs in contrast,
if your facts run
in contrast with your earlier--
whatever’s going through
your head that you wrote
it will change if you see
something else in your research.
- Or in the middle of writing,
you find a different direction
you want to take.
It's possible.
It could happen
because your stance could’ve shifted.
If you notice,
that’s your stand
on whatever aspect
of life you want to tackle
That’s when we say
‘into a certain extent’,
that’s why I ask,
what do you really believe in?
For example,
”I believe infidelity is like this…”
- So it’s possible, in the course
of creating the play, to change your mind.
You had a life-changing epiphany
about that event in your life.
You suddenly broke up
with a lover.
“Ah that wasn't it,"
"Love is not a joyous thing."
"It's bullshit!"
You changed,
so your story changes as well.
But of course
that doesn’t happen all the time.
It can of course,
but it’s part of the writing process.
In the same way,
maybe if you’re making a documentary.
Imagine, you have a hypothesis
and then you realize that’s not it.
How about that?
Let’s say, greedy ambition
leads to destruction.
I don’t believe that.
Prove it to me.
How?
Tell me what happened.
This, this, this.
So when you keep on
adding details to the story,
there’s nowhere else
to go to but here.
So you proved it
with catharsis, right?
My only caution,
if you cling to that too much,
your play might sound didactic.
Especially for beginning writers,
who tend to spell-out everything.
“She’s really ambitious.”
“She’s really destructive.”
You’ll hear a character like that, right?
And then she actually dies.
Something like that, right?
Because it seems
like the only way.
But that would be less of
a lack of a shaky premise
as much as it is also a lack of...
skillful writing.
Because a very good premise
doesn’t guarantee you
a very good play.
Because there’re plenty of elements.
There's still an element
of how to do the dialogue.
How do you give examples
so you can prove this event?
Maybe you’ve done
what others have already done.
It’s just another repetition.
A cliché, another
stereotyping of a character,
So you try and do something
you think will be
a hit to the audience.
There are plays
that have many characters
and they could be a group going through
an obstacle
to reach the conclusion.
It could be a team,
could be a family,
could be...
a congregation of priests
or a group of friends.
And sometimes their fight
becomes a hurdle
in order to get what they want
because they’re not united.
I think that’s the best way
to make the guide or direction clearer
in formulating the premise
so you don’t get lost.
- Do you recommend,
even if the writer
is still uncertain,
that a premise be written
even before writing the play?
Like what I said,
the danger is
you might get carried away
and the play might become didactic.
It becomes more than a guide,
which dictates your
every decision.
At this point, you need
to prove this and that.
The tendency is,
since your options are narrower,
it becomes a stricture.
So it doesn't...
as a writer myself,
I started with a clear
premise at the outset
only when I was still new at writing
Because you need an anchor,
you need to say what you want.
When you’re surrounded
by activists, writers with a purpose
your play needs to
say something clear
about what’s going on
in our environment.
So sometimes,
what prevails is the premise
and the play looks like
an essay or a manifesto.
It has its specific purpose,
especially at its heydey,
during a time of political ferment.
But it might also be
in the long-run,
a stricture
that you can’t get out of,
because it becomes
a formula for all your plays.
Sometimes your character
is forced to do things
out of character
only because your premise prevailed.
Sometimes your character
may already be screaming, “that’s not me!”
When you put words
into the mouth of your character,
It’s not the character
speaking, but you.
That’s what you have to balance.
At the same time,
at any point in the writing process,
maybe it would help
if you already wrote the premise
because in the end
you’d understand
the play you wrote better.
So you won’t be
like other writers ...
Aren’t there beginning writers,
when asked,
“Why’d you write it this way?”
They’d answer,
“Nothing, really.”
- It’s just nice to hear.
- The delivery of the words are nice.
You might even understand it better
if you formulate it in the end or whatever.
Any questions?
- So I guess it's like a guide,
let’s say it’s a musical,
to cut out musical numbers that are—
- Unnecessary.
Yes, something like that.
The most irrelevant.
Yes, not just songs,
scenes, and so on.
Of course, you give some leeway
because that might be
the most spectacular part.
It might be too bare without it.
What makes it complicated
is that you don’t know anything at first
until you go through the last part
and realize, “Oh, it’s like this.”
But you went through a lot
before you realize that.
There are plays like that, right?
It’s cluttered in the beginning
and you don’t know where it’s going.
“Why’s there a different
character like this?”
But eventually that’s it.
There’s actually a connection
to the main premise that you want.
The trajectory’s not always singular,
as probably most of the classics are.
Relatively, you don't know
where Chekhov's plays are going
until it all comes together in the end.
All of a sudden irrelevant characters,
you realize,
actually layer
the main event.
I guess right now,
I'm thinking
of when you get
to write your premise
and it's clear to you
in the beginning,
your objective as writers
is how to occlude it,
how to cover it,
so it doesn't appear as it is
in the same way with our
exercise yesterday about beliefs.
Don't say
the actual keyword.
When it's clear to you,
it's clear to you.
- It's just a mindset that's there.
When you're drunk or lost,
you just have to look and it's there.
- So it’s something that really implies,
not explicitly states.
- Yes.
- Until they don't get it anymore.
- Ah 'yun.
- Aren't some plays like that?
- You realize "oh, that's what it means."
And it's just there.
So it's either your fault as audience
or the writer's fault.
There are cases like that.
It's pretty clear to the writer
so she buried it deeply for it to be subtle
to a point where it became
undetectable instead.
- That's great, really clever!
And after that, they'll blame you,
the audience, for not noticing it.
"You didn't see it?"
"You didn't get it?"
"Alright, fine, I'm stupid."
That happens, right?
I believe that in the
plays I've written
there's no one
theme in each play.
There could be one
topic, one milieu,
but you could
generate different themes
like friendship, love, themes of
collaboration, exploitation, and so on.
You could include everything
but there's one premise
that'll stand out.
That's the play's direction.
This is so we could separate
the definition of theme or even message
because the premise
could be how you see it,
what you follow
underlying the story,
what guides you
and keeps the story intact.
Because sometimes
there are plays
where you wonder
who it is you're following,
what story you should focus on
and where you should anchor yourself.
Usually, when the audience
can't find anything to hold on to
like the protagonist,
it's an indication
that you have to liven up the character
you chose to reach the conclusion.
There are also plays
that focus on one character
and no one else.
I guess that's what you
need to know about premise.
The play you're writing,
I assume you're
already writing the play
to maximize this course.
The last assignment I gave
was the character sketch and monologue.
This time
it might be better for you
to write the actual story
of your play.
A detailed story.
What I'm asking for is a storyline.
This includes your original story
of the character, or milieu,
or team you chose
whether it's a group
of friends or a family,
and what the character is facing
until the conclusion.
Just describe the story.
Three pages is already long.
Usually, you can already tell
or describe the story within two pages.
Let's not think
about the premise yet,
but if you realize it
after telling the story
then
congratulations!
That doesn't happen often, okay?
Sometimes there's a eureka moment
even if you are still
about to find it in the next step.
But the reason I asked for a storyline
is for you to have a clearer direction.